A huge amount of hydrogen is needed to fuel to rocket.
Diesel fuel produce energy.
The diesel in this tank fuels both of the ship's motors.
Fuel produce energy.
The engine had been converted so that it could be fuelled by unleaded petrol.
Gasoline produce energy.
Fossil fuel production and consumption began with coal.
Combustible produce energy.
However, large-scale combustion of coal is typically correlated with the period around the beginning of the Industrial Revolution.
Diesel fuel also used in transport.
The visualisation shows the global consumption of fossil fuels - coal, oil and gas - from 1800 onwards.
Fuel also used in transport.
Overall, we see large differences across the world, both in terms of the magnitude of fossil energy consumption and their relative mix.
Gasoline also used in transport.
Total consumption levels of fossil fuels in higher-income countries have typically peaked, and are now declining as they transition towards lower-carbon energy sources.
Combustible also used in transport.
The relative mix of coal, oil and gas in total consumption also varies by country.
Diesel fuel is used in the diesel engines found in most freight trucks, trains, buses, boats, and farm and construction vehicles, and in some cars and small trucks.
Diesel fuel powers cars, trucks and buses.
Diesel fuel is also used in diesel engine generators to generate electricity, such as in remote villages in Alaska, among other locations around the word.
Fuel powers cars, trucks and buses.
Many industrial facilities, large buildings, institutional facilities, hospitals, and electric utilities have diesel generators for backup and emergency power supply.
Gasoline powers cars, trucks and buses.
Diesel fuel is a type of distillate fuel.
Combustible powers cars, trucks and buses.
On average, about 12 gallons to 13 gallons of distillate are produced from each 42-gallon barrel of crude oil in U.S. refineries, with the majority sold as diesel fuel.
Before 2015, diesel fuel sold in the United States contained high quantities of sulfur.
Sulfur in diesel fuel produces air pollution emissions that are harmful to human health. In 2006, the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency issued requirements to reduce the sulfur content of diesel fuel.
The requirements phased in over time, beginning with diesel fuel sold for vehicles used on roadways and eventually covering all diesel fuel.
All diesel fuel now sold in the United States must have a sulfur content of no more than 15 parts per million.
Diesel fuel is important to the U.S. economy.
As a transportation fuel, diesel fuel offers a wide range of performance, efficiency, and safety features.
Diesel fuel also has a greater energy density than other liquid fuels, so it provides more useful energy per unit of volume.
Diesel engines in trucks, trains, boats, and barges help transport nearly all products people consume.
Diesel fuel is commonly used in public buses and school buses.
Diesel fuel powers most of the farm and construction equipment in the United States.
The construction industry also depends on the power diesel fuel provides.
Diesel engines can do demanding construction work, such as lifting steel beams, digging foundations and trenches, drilling wells, paving roads, and moving soil safely and efficiently.
The U.S. military uses diesel fuel in tanks and trucks because diesel fuel is less flammable and less explosive than other fuels.
Diesel engines are also less likely to stall than gasoline-fueled engines.
Diesel fuel is also used in diesel engine generators to generate electricity.
Many industrial facilities, large buildings, institutional facilities, hospitals, and electric utilities have diesel generators for backup and emergency power supply.
Most remote villages in Alaska use diesel generators for their electricity.
Diesel fuel (refined from crude oil) produces many harmful emissions when it is burned, and diesel-fueled vehicles are major sources of harmful pollutants such as ground-level ozone and particulate matter.
To address this problem, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) established standards for the sulfur content of diesel fuel and for emissions from new diesel engines.
EPA fuel standards require a major reduction in the sulfur content of diesel fuels.
To meet the EPA standards, the petroleum industry is producing Ultra Low Sulfur Diesel (ULSD) fuel, a cleaner burning diesel fuel containing a maximum 15 parts-per-million (ppm) sulfur.
All diesel fuel sold in the United States since 2014 is ULSD fuel.
Diesel engines get better fuel economy than gasoline-powered engines, so the amount of CO2 produced for each mile traveled may be lower in a vehicle with a diesel engine.
Diesel fuel contains ethanol.
Fuel contains ethanol.
Gasoline contains ethanol.
Combustible contains ethanol.
Gasoline is a fuel made from crude oil and other petroleum liquids.
Gasoline is mainly used as an engine fuel in vehicles.
Refineries and companies that produce the finished motor gasoline sold in retail gasoline fueling stations may add various liquids so that the gasoline burns cleaner and meets air pollution control standards and requirements.
Combustible displaced coal and fuel oil for steam-powered vehicles.
Diesel fuel emit less carbon dioxide.
Fuel emit less carbon dioxide.
Finished motor gasoline meets the basic requirements for fuel that is suitable for use in spark ignition engines.
Some finished motor gasoline may require additional blending with ethanol (a renewable fuel and oxygenate), detergents and other additives, and higher octane gasoline before it is delivered to retail outlets for sale to end users.
Most of the gasoline that oil refineries produce is actually unfinished gasoline (or gasoline blendstocks).
Combustible emit less carbon dioxide.
Gasoline blendstocks require additional blending and usually require ethanol before delivery to retail outlets as finished gasoline.
Refineries produce some finished gasoline, but most of the finished gasoline sold in the United States is actually produced at blending terminals where finished gasoline, gasoline blendstocks, and fuel ethanol are processed into finished gasoline ready for consumer use.
Blending terminals are more numerous and widely dispersed than refineries, and they have equipment for loading trucks that transport finished gasoline to retail outlets.
Most of the motor gasoline now sold in the United States contains about 10% fuel ethanol by volume.
Ethanol is added to gasoline mainly to meet the requirements of the Renewable Fuels Standard, which is intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the amount of oil that the United States imports from other countries.
In addition to the different grades of motor gasoline, the formulation of gasoline may differ depending on the location where it is sold or the season.
Fuel burns in a limited range of its vapor phase.
Diesel fuel vaporise at temperatures between 149 and 371.
Fuel burns vaporise at temperatures between 149 and 371.
Gasoline burns vaporise at temperatures between 149 and 371.
Combustible burns vaporise at temperatures between 149 and 371.
Diesel fuel displaced coal and fuel oil for steam-powered vehicles.
Fuel displaced coal and fuel oil for steam-powered vehicles.
Gasoline displaced coal and fuel oil for steam-powered vehicles.
Combustible displaced coal and fuel oil for steam-powered vehicles.
Gasoline burns in a limited range of its vapor phase.
Federal and state air pollution control programs that aim to reduce carbon monoxide, smog, and air toxins require oxygenated, reformulated, and low-volatility gasoline. Some areas of the country are required to use specially formulated gasoline to reduce certain emissions, and the formulation may change during winter and summer months.
These area-specific requirements mean that gasoline is not a homogenous product nationwide.
Gasoline produced for sale in one area of the United States may not be authorized for sale in another area.
The characteristics of the gasoline depend on the type of crude oil that is used and the setup of the refinery where the gasoline is produced.
Gasoline burns freeze at common winter temperatures.
Combustible burns freeze at common winter temperatures.
Gasoline characteristics are also affected by other ingredients that may be included in the blend, such as ethanol.
Most motor gasoline sold in the United States contains some fuel ethanol.
Gasoline is a toxic and highly flammable liquid.
It is derived during fractional distillation process and has a translucent liquid form.
It's not used in its crude form.
Different additives are added like ethanol to use it as fuel for passenger vehicles.
Diesel fuel vapor is a common intoxicant.
Fuel vapor is a common intoxicant.
Gasoline vapor is a common intoxicant.
Combustible vapor is a common intoxicant.
Diesel fuel burns in a limited range of its vapor phase.
Fuel burns in a limited range of its vapor phase.
Gasoline burns in a limited range of its vapor phase.
Combustible burns in a limited range of its vapor phase.
Diesel fuel freeze at common winter temperatures.
Fuel burns freeze at common winter temperatures.
Gasoline burns freeze at common winter temperatures.
Combustible burns freeze at common winter temperatures.
Diesel fuel emit less carbon dioxide.
The vapors given off when gasoline evaporates and the substances produced when gasoline is burned (carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, particulate matter, and unburned hydrocarbons) contribute to air pollution.
Burning gasoline also produces carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas.
Gasoline or petrol is a derivative product of crude oil/petroleum.
Fuel emit less carbon dioxide.
Gasoline emit less carbon dioxide.
Even with these advances, diesel fuel still contributes to air pollution in the United States because it will take a long time for new cleaner burning diesel vehicles to replace older vehicles.
About 22 pounds of carbon dioxide (CO2) are produced when a gallon of diesel fuel is burned.
Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas that is linked to global climate change.