
Towards greener refrigeration technologies. 

Mario Demicheli 

Issue: 

Innovative refrigeration technologies, as well as frameworks for their adoption by industry, will be decisive in reinforcing the effectiveness of the Montreal Protocol for the protection of the ozone layer and its speedy application by all countries.

Relevance: 

Although some companies have already started to adopt greener refrigeration technologies, incentive and regulatory structures that make these changes affordable to poorer regions and to small companies are still lacking.
On the other hand, the generalised use of alternative, non-chloro- or fluorinated refrigerants may entail potential risks, thus calling for the development of new safety standards.

Market overview 

Developing country manufacturers are becoming significant players in a world market worth US$40-45 bn.

Air-conditioning and refrigeration is a global industry.

Refrigeration is essential for food preservation, modern healthcare and many industrial processes.
In addition, modern living and work environments and transportation systems increasingly utilise air-conditioning.

In today's global marketplace, demand for air- conditioning and refrigeration equipment is estimated at US$40-45 billion.
It is composed of both mature markets in North America, Asia and Europe, which require both new and replacement equipment, and newer, expanding markets in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe.
The United States and Japan are the world's major producers and suppliers of air-conditioning and refrigeration equipment, but industries in Brazil, China, Korea, Taiwan and elsewhere have grown dramatically in the last decade (see Figure 1).

The forecast for 1996-2005 is very positive.
With continuing economic growth in Asian and Latin American markets, the air-conditioning and refrigeration industry should expand to a $50 billion global industry.

Manufacturers in Brazil, China, Taiwan and Korea will become significant equipment suppliers to the world market.

The Montreal Protocol calls for radical change in refrigeration technology worldwide.

Efforts to protect the stratospheric ozone layer, in compliance with the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (MP), have necessitated a transition to new equipment using ozone-friendly refrigerants.
The transition, which is already well under way in the industrialised nations, will also affect developing country markets early in the next century.

Overall, prospects for a growing world economy bode well for the air-conditioning and refrigeration industry &lsqb;1&rsqb;.

CFCs and ozone depletion 

Additional scientific evidence has recently been reported confirming that CFCs are the dominant source of chlorine in the stratosphere &lsqb;2&rsqb;.
The observations also support the assertion that the amount of chlorine is large enough to cause the observed ozone change &lsqb;3&rsqb;.
Among the adverse consequences of the ozone layer depletion are the increase in the incidence of skin cancers among humans, falls in agricultural yields, etc. &lsqb;4&rsqb;.

Over decades the annual release of more than one million tons of CFCs was drawing chlorine concentrations in the atmosphere up several percent each year.
The MP, restricting the use of chlorine-based ozone-destroying chemicals, was adopted in 1987.
Chlorine peaked in the lower atmosphere by the end of 1994 and now is on the way down.

Table

Figure 1: World market for air conditioning and refrigeration equipment as pie chart :

US.
33%.


Japan.
33%.


Europe.
10%.


China.
9%.


Korea.
5%.


Brazil.
4%.


Taiwan.
2%.


Other.
4%.


HCFCs are still weak ozone depletory.

Signatories of the 1987 MP agreed to cease the production of CFCs by 1st January 1995.
Some wealthy countries that signed the MP have moved from CFC use, mostly towards HCFCs which are still weak ozone destroyers and contribute to global warming.
Subsequently, the fourth meeting of the parties, in November 1992, agreed a long- term target to cease the production of hydrogenated chlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs)&lsqb;5&rsqb;.
This relatively late date can be at least partially explained by the political clout of industry, with the aim of securing and protecting its established markets.
The United States would be particularly hindered by a more imminent phase out of HCFCs due to its large air conditioning facilities &lsqb;6&rsqb;.
On 1st December 1992 the Financial Times reported that Du Pont had invested $450 million in HCFC and HFC (hydrofluorocarbons) production, and was set to hit the $1 billion mark by 1995, with an expected recovery period for the investment of no less than ten years &lsqb;7&rsqb;.

Transitional solutions 

Industry refers to HCFCs and HFCs as transitional substances , meaning that they will have to be replaced by more environmentally-acceptable substances sometime in the not-too-distant future &lsqb;7&rsqb;.
However, in 1992 UNEP warned that investment in greener technology alternatives can be hindered by lasting prospects of conventional technology using transitional substances.
Developing countries, especially, cannot afford the two-step approach for phasing-out CFCs, as proposed by the chemical industry &lsqb;7&rsqb;.
Air-conditioning and refrigeration is, together with aerosol and fire protection, one of the major industry sectors using HCFCs and HFCs.

Towards low global warming potential and high energy efficiency 

National governments, international organisations, industry and the European authorities now have an important role to play in making the switch to novel green refrigeration technologies a reality.
The emphasis should be put on real alternatives; not transitional solutions.

Changes in national regulations governing refrigerants are now being made by some countries.
The implicit incentive of attaining cost-effective production is to be kept in mind while looking for new environmental technologies.
Yet, in a proactive way, policies could be an additional stimulus for innovative companies, who might compensate for higher costs during the initial phase of development with a marketable 'green' image.

Energy-related CO2 releases compound refrigeration's effect on global warming.

Reduction in electricity consumption is an important issue for the EU.
DGXI (Environment) and DGXVII (Energy) are working together in a Refrigeration Directive, whose main objective is to reduce energy consumption and increase the energy efficiency of household appliances.

Needless to say, the generation of electrical energy used to operate air-conditioning and refrigeration equipment produces carbon dioxide, which is the dominant greenhouse gas.

Consequently an air-conditioning or refrigeration system must be evaluated on the basis of both the global warming potential of the refrigerant released, and the indirect effect of energy used over time &lsqb;8&rsqb;.

The availability of utility incentives and the opportunity to lower electricity bills should drive the end-user's decision to change to high-efficiency refrigeration systems or improve existing facilities.
In other words, agreements could be reached by which a rebate from the local electricity utility would pay the cost premium of the equipment upgrade.
This scheme has already been put into practice by a food distribution centre in Massachusetts resulting in annual electricity savings of about 440,000 kilowatt hours.
The new evaporative system is approximately 15 percent more efficient than the conventional air-cooled system. &lsqb;9&rsqb;.

In Europe, voluntary agreements should ideally play an important role....

The importance of European consensus on the basis for implementation of agreements between national governments and industrial sectors arises, given the major role refrigeration technology plays in key economic sectors.

Undoubtedly, voluntary agreements are preferable to regulation, wherever possible &lsqb;10&rsqb;.

......but in developing countries financial and technical assistance is needed Developing countries may not be in a position to afford this change, however.
The continuing provision of financial and technological resources to assist developing countries to eliminate ozone-depleting substances as well as the new insights provided by the scientific and technical communities are relevant to this point.

Greener but safer coolants? 

Ammonia 

Historically, ammonia was used as a coolant in mobile and stationary installations.
In the shipping industry the use of ammonia as a refrigerant for cargo ships carrying frozen foods peaked in the 1950s.
At around this time CFC refrigeration began to be adopted and diffused quickly, mainly because of the inertness of these compounds not only towards the refrigeration machinery but also in the event of a leak.
Thus, the low efficiency of this emerging technology was initially compensated by the use of cheaper assembly materials.

Ammonia-based refrigeration is enjoying a resurgence In the United States, ammonia refrigeration has recently been proposed as an alternative to refrigeration systems that employ ozone-depleting substances.
In an effort to better inform the refrigeration industry of the basic concepts involved, the International Institute of Ammonia Refrigeration (IIAR) is preparing a series of educational videotapes &lsqb;11&rsqb;.

Even in home refrigerators, ammonia was around well before CFCs and is still used for 81% of the chilling in refrigerated warehouses in the United States.
German firms chose ammonia for two-thirds of their cold storage and food processing systems, a model increasingly copied by Nordic countries, Eastern Europe, and most developing countries.
Ammonia is flammable and toxic at low concentrations.
However, hermetically-sealed units, using corrosion-free materials, could rapidly become popular for water-coolers, air conditioners, and refrigerators.

Moreover, ammonia is not persistent in the atmosphere so its escape during maintenance and at disposal poses no significant environmental threat &lsqb;12&rsqb;.

The UK's major port for fruit imports, Sheerness, which handles over 300,000 tonnes of fresh produce per year, has recently inaugurated additional cool storage facilities.
The refrigeration system includes the UK s first screw compressors operating on ammonia.
With a capacity of 20,000m3 the new store can handle a throughput of 1000 tonnes of produce daily &lsqb;13&rsqb;.

In comparison with HCFC-22, ammonia costs about a twelfth, and requires only 40% of the corresponding volume.
However, because of ammonia's corrosive nature, expensive steel piping and storage vessels must be used.
Also, upgraded compressors, a more elaborate refrigerant alarm system, a remote shut-off, and ventilation controls contribute to the cost premium &lsqb;9&rsqb;.

In Japan, traditional barriers to the use of ammonia as a refrigerant in comparison with regular fluoron gas are: the fact that large quantities are required to achieve the same cooling power (of the order of several tons of ammonia for just a single refrigeration unit); the danger of leaks to the surrounding environment in the event of earthquake or through corrosion of cooling pipes; and its high cost &lsqb;14&rsqb;.

Hydrocarbons 

Hydrocarbons may offer a promising alternative, despite safety concerns.

Governments and environmental groups have been pressing fridge manufacturers throughout Europe to use hydrocarbons because of their lower global warming potential.
But hydrocarbons bring up new safety concerns.
The use of hydrocarbons in domestic refrigeration predates the invention of CFCs in the early 1930s.Looking at the situation predominating at that time in the United States, today's hydrocarbon refrigerators use 20-50 times less refrigerant under much safer conditions &lsqb;7&rsqb;.

The flammability of hydrocarbons could be tackled through adequate safety measures in production and product design.
The content of propane or butane in a domestic refrigerator is very small.
Consequently, standards must be directed towards high-capacity commercial refrigerators.

Early in 1992, Germany introduced hydrocarbon refrigerators.
Then, in 1994, India and China were being helped by Germany's development aid agency to build refrigerators using CFC-free technology This technology, promoted by Greenpeace as 'greenfreeze', utilises gaseous hydrocarbons.
It must be pointed out that China and India account for over 50% of the total CFC consumption in the Third World &lsqb;15&rsqb;.
Also in West Africa, national and international organisations have been working together in the conversion of existing refrigerators to run with hydrocarbons. &lsqb;7&rsqb;.

In February 1996, Elstar (Castle Donnington, UK), became the world's first commercial chiller manufacturer to switch entirely to hydrocarbon refrigerants.
The converted production line will use Care 30 ® (Calor Gas) refrigerant, an hydrocarbon blend.
These and other moves to 'greenfreeze' technology indicate that solutions to at least some environmental problems are possible &lsqb;16&rsqb;.

Bosch-Siemens Hausgerate (BSHG), Munich, one of Europe's largest refrigerator manufacturers, has decided to stop using HCFCs in the vast majority of its products.

Instead, around 80 to 85 percent of its refrigerators will use pentane as an insulator and isobutane as a coolant.
In the remaining 15 percent, which will consist of frost-free models, the company will continue to use HFC134a as a coolant.
Electrolux of Sweden, the market leader in the European refrigerator market, is thought to be developing models using hydrocarbon coolants and insulators.
However, HFC134a producers in Europe appear not to be worried about a move by leading refrigerator makers like BSHG to hydrocarbon coolants.
On the contrary, they are enjoying a booming market for this chemical product, since domestic appliances make up less than 5 percent of the total world market. &lsqb;17&rsqb;
Although HCFC and HFC replacements were initially favoured in the United States and Japan, the hydrocarbon option would have rooted in the United States.
There, the refrigeration market appears to be sensitive to, and pervaded by, political concerns.
As an example, the sales of OZ Technology, a company that markets hydrocarbon refrigerant blends, has fallen off since the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) rejected its application for approval to market its product as a CFC replacement.
Interested in the hydrocarbon refrigerant market, Exxon has offered assistance in OZ's legal battles with EPA.
On the other hand, American equipment manufacturers, aiming at selling a new generation of equipment designed for the new HFC refrigerants, are seeking to amplify concern over flammability.
EPA s officials, who are involved in a program to certify CFC substitutes, claim more formal risk assessment is required on flammability.
In particular, distinguishing between hydrocarbon use in existing systems and retrofitted equipment will be crucial when considering their risk.
In contrast, Germany's Ministry for Technical Co-operation (GTZ), which is supporting hydrocarbons and technology transfer to China, India, and other developing countries, maintains hydrocarbons can be produced locally in developing countries at far lower cost than imported HFCs or other fluorinated alternatives &lsqb;18&rsqb;.

Future refrigeration technologies. 

More radical alternatives are likely to be found in the longer term.

As suggested above, research and technological development (RTD) could focus on real, safe-in-the-long- term alternatives rather than costly, transitional solutions.
At the European level, the most important actions over recent years have been undertaken through the THERMIE and CRAFT programs.
Some emphasis was put in integrated designs for reducing energy costs and in the use of naturally-occurring substances as refrigerants.

Another point of interest is the development of a European absorption refrigeration technology, using ammonia/water, or very specific coolants such as lithium bromide.

A key advantage is that absorption cycles can be designed for co-generation of power/heat and refrigeration.
Major applications of these technologies are to be found in the food and air conditioning industries.
Solar installations for co-generation of heat and cold have also been sought.
In the United States, the intriguing alternative of hydrogen-based refrigeration is under development &lsqb;19&rsqb;.
In the field of very low temperatures, both optical- and magnetic refrigeration technologies may have a strong impact in the future.

Keywords 

Montreal Protocol, global warming, ozone depletion, refrigeration, CFCs, ammonia, hydrocarbons, hydrogen.
