Diesel fuel is used in diesel engine generators to generate electricity.
Diesel fuel is used in internal combustion engines.
Diesel fuel is actively used for small cars and heating homes.
Diesel fuel is widely used in transportation.
Diesel fuel is also often used as the main ingredient in oil-base mud drilling fluid.
Diesel fuel used as fuel for diesel engines, ordinarily obtained from fractions of crude oil

Diesel fuel produces many harmful emissions.

Diesel fuel powers cars, trucks and buses.
Diesel fuel originated from experiments conducted by German scientist and inventor.

Diesel fuels involves converting the triglycerides in vegetable oil.

Diesel is normally stored in a black container.
Unleaded petrol is commonly stored in a green container.
Leaded petrol is stored in a red container.

Fuels are also used in the cells of organisms in a process known as cellular respiration.

Gasoline is produced in several grades of octane rating.
Sometimes, gasoline also contains ethanol as an alternative fuel, for economic, political or environmental reasons.
Gasoline used in internal combustion engines has a significant effect on the environment.
Gasoline contains benzene and other known carcinogens.
Gasoline containing ethanol is especially subject to absorbing atmospheric moisture, then forming gums, solids, or two phases.
Gasoline is produced in oil refineries.
Gasoline consists of hydrocarbons with between 4 and 12 carbon atoms per molecule.
Straight-run gasoline can be also used as a feedstock into steam-crackers to produce olefins.
Gasoline can also contain other organic compounds, such as organic ethers plus small levels of contaminants.
Gasoline, when used in high-compression internal combustion engines, tends to autoignite (detonate) causing damaging "engine knocking".
Gasoline produces 8.74 kilograms of carbon dioxide.
Inhaled gasoline vapor is a common intoxicant.
Like other hydrocarbons, gasoline burns in a limited range of its vapor phase.

Internal combustion engines are usually powered by fuels such as diesel or gasoline

Diesel offers a higher volumetric energy density.
Diesel is composed of saturated hydrocarbons.
Diesel fuel releases more energy on combustion than equal volumes of gasoline.
Diesel fuel is less explosive than other fuels.
The U.S. Energy Information Administration estimates that diesel provides as much as 7 percent of the energy used in the U.S.
Diesel also poses a reduced risk of fire during an accident and produces fewer emissions than gas.
The important properties which are used to characterize diesel fuel include cetane number (or cetane index), fuel volatility, density, viscosity, cold behavior, and sulfur content.
Most diesel fuels freeze at common winter temperatures.
Conventional diesel fuels vaporise at temperatures between 149 and 371.
In the past, diesel fuel contained higher quantities of sulfur
Special low-temperature diesel contains additives to keep it liquid at lower temperatures.
Diesel displaced coal and fuel oil for steam-powered vehicles.
Freight truck with diesel engine.
Many industrial facilities, large buildings, institutional facilities, hospitals, and electric utilities have diesel generators for backup and emergency power supply.
The military uses diesel fuel in tanks and trucks because diesel fuel is less flammable.
Because they consume less fuel for a given amount of work, diesels emit less carbon dioxide.
At the end of the building, two large chiller units are stood, each with a diesel engine driving the compressor that keeps it cool.
The five cylinder turbocharged diesel engine is extremely noisy at all times.
The engine and generator will use diesel and not petrol as fuel.
Diesel oil produce the energy that drives pistons and moves the vehicles.

Many fuel gases are composed of hydrocarbons.
Fuel gas is contrasted with liquid fuels and from solid fuels

Fossil fuels contain high percentages of carbon and include coal, petroleum, and natural gas.

Fuels are contrasted with other substances or devices storing potential energy.
Fuels are also used in the cells of organisms in a process known as cellular respiration.
Fuel produce energy and provide heating